The future is running at us. The coronavirus shock is accelerating
structural trends in inequality, globalization, macro policy and
sustainability. This is fundamentally reshaping the investment landscape
and will be key to investor outcomes . Our three new investment themes
Activity restart, Policy revolution and Real resilience are meant to reflect
the rapidly changing world. The most important action investors need to
take today, in our view, is to review their strategic asset allocation to
ensure portfolios are resilient to the supercharged trends.

The initial Covid
19 contraction is larger
than the great financial crisis, but we believe
its cumulative impact on the economy will
likely be less as long as the policy response
remains strong enough to cushion the blow.
Normal business cycle dynamics do not
apply, so we are tracking three signposts:
how successful economies are at restarting
activity while controlling the virus spread;
whether stimulus is still sufficient and
reaching households and businesses; and
whether any signs of financial vulnerabilities
or permanent scarring of productive capacity
are emerging. Markets are laser focused on
changes in any of these three “known
unknowns,” and a possible second wave of
infections and policy fatigue are major risks
in the second half.
The shock will have long
term consequences
that are starting to play out. Policymakers
are funnelling money directly to the (non
financial) private sector, with debt
monetization a possibility down the road. The
pandemic is reinforcing structural trends
such as ecommerce and sustainability;
amplifying deglobalization and geopolitical
fragmentation; and may deliver a
generational shock to the emerging world.

Investors grapple with these issues today.
This is why our virtual Midyear Outlook
Forum focused on structural trends and
why we emphasize three strategic calls.
First, central banks have committed to keep
rates low, enabling an unprecedented fiscal
expansion. Combined with the risk of supply
shocks, this raises the potential for higher
inflation in the medium term and challenges
the role of nominal government bonds as
ballast over a strategic horizon. Second, the
pandemic has accelerated a tectonic shift
toward sustainability. Third, deglobalization
and fragmentation call for a focus on real
resilience: diversifying across companies,
sectors and countries that are positioned
well for these trends.
On a tactical horizon, we are modestly
pro risk, with an overweight in corporate
credit. We prefer up in quality assets with
strong policy backstops. One of our highest
conviction views is an increased overweight
to the quality factor. We upgrade European
equities to overweight as the most attractive
exposure to a cyclical uptick. We cut U.S.
equities to neutral after a stretch of
outperformance as we see risks of fading
fiscal stimulus and election uncertainty.

The focus of the BlackRock Investment
Institute’s virtual but no less real
Midyear Outlook Forum in early June
was decisively on longer term trends.
The Covid 19 shock has pushed the
world harder against four key limits we
identified at our November forum:
inequality, globalization, macro policy
and sustainability.
The public health and ensuing economic
crisis are exacerbating entrenched forms
of inequality across income levels, race
and countries. Many emerging markets
(EMs) are facing health, policy and
deglobalization challenges. From an
investment perspective, the group’s
heterogenous nature creates dispersion
and opportunities. See page 9.
The pandemic
has exposed
vulnerabilities of global supply chains,
and added impetus to geopolitical
fragmentation. See page 8. It has led to
a policy revolution that blurs the
boundaries between fiscal and monetary
action and could address some of the
rising inequalities. This is positive for
markets in the short run but may be less
so in the medium term. See page 6. And
it has put a premium on sustainability,
corporate responsibility and resilience
of companies, sectors and countries.
See pages 7 and 12.
Market sentiment has been driven by the
pandemic’s near term evolution and the
policy response, but these structural
limits are transforming the investment
landscape and will be significant to
investment outcomes.
The world has changed, leading us to a
completely new macro framework and
major view changes. Our revamped 2020
investment themes reflect this, and now
include strategic, or long term,
implications. See the boxes on the right.
Our current macro view is captured by
the “Activity restart” theme as economies
reopen at different speeds. See page 5.
A policy revolution is taking place to
cushion the pandemic’s impact, making
this our second theme. See page 6.
Our third theme is “Real resilience.”
Financial resilience of portfolios such
as the diversification of equity risk
through government bond allocations
will not be enough to offset the real
economic changes that we see in
motion, in our view. See page 7.
What is needed is a reassessment of the
whole portfolio, not just tweaking its
edges. This is why we are focused on the
big strategic changes investors should
consider making now. See pages 10 12.
2020

Activity restart
Economies are slowly restarting, but at different paces.
We are tracking the evolution of the virus and mobility.
The longer it takes for activity to restart, the more cracks
might appear in the financial system.
Strategic implication
: We are moderately pro risk,
and express it in an overweight to credit.
Tactical implication
: We have closed our underweights
in cyclical assets, with a preference for Europe.

Policy revolution
The policy revolution was needed to cushion the
devastating and deflationary impact of the virus shock.
In the medium term, however, the blurring of monetary
and fiscal policy could bring about upside inflation risks.
Strategic implication
: We are underweight nominal
government bonds and like inflation linked bonds.
Tactical implication
: We like credit, partly on central bank
purchases. U.S. stocks are at risk of fading fiscal stimulus.

Real resilience
Supercharged structural trends will change the nature of
portfolio diversification. Countries and sectors will make
a comeback as diversifiers in a more fragmented world, in
our view, offering resilience to real economy trends.
Strategic implication
: We favor sustainable assets,
private markets and deliberate country diversification.
Tactical implication
: We have increased our overweight in
the quality factor and prefer assets with policy backstops.

The virus shock is entirely different from
the normal business cycle. G lobal
economic activity was deliberately frozen
to stem the pandemic. The initial shock
was sudden and very deep. Yet what
matters for asset pricing is the
cumulative impact of the growth
shortfall over time.
The policy actions to cushion the impact
of the virus shock are nothing short of a
revolution. Execution remains a risk,
but if successful, we see the cumulative
economic damage even under the
currently most bearish forecasts as
below that in the wake of the 2008
global financial crisis. See How large is
the coronavirus shock?
History offers little insight on the path
of economic reopening or on how asset
prices should react. Ahead of us is a
“restart” of economic activity, with many
uncertainties around how quickly people
and companies will feel comfortable to
resume their pre pandemic activities.
The longer it takes for activity to restart,
the more cracks might appear in
the financial system and productive
capacity. That leaves us with three key
risks: renewed infection waves, policy
exhaustion and any permanent damage
to the economy.
We use signposts for tracking these risks
in real time:
1.
Tracking the interplay of mobility,
virus spread and containment
measures on activity as economies
start to reopen (page 5).
2.
Monitoring whether policy
measures to cushion the shock
are reaching households and
businesses, and whether fiscal
stimulus is fading too fast (page 6).
3.
Watching for emerging signs of
financial vulnerabilities and any
permanent scarring of productive
capacity.
The shock was like a natural disaster
and very visible. Markets priced in the
impact before the horrendous job losses
materialized. The unprecedented policy
response initially helped turn risk assets
around in late March. Once the extent of
the damage became clear in April,
markets looked forward to the reopening
of economies and eventual recovery.
See the Very visible shock chart.
As such, there doesn’t appear to
be a major disconnect between
market pricing and the real economy.
Yet setbacks on any of our
signposts could hit risk assets.

Markets are focused on a return
of economic activity, delivery of
stimulus and signs of financial
vulnerabilities.

The pandemic and containment
measures brought activity to a
virtual standstill, delivering a
historic shock to the economy.
This is not a business cycle
slowdown and recovery. That is
why markets could see beyond the
unprecedented contraction and
started to recover well before any
signs of a rebound in activity.
The near
term contraction is the
worst since the Great Depression
and far deeper than the global
financial crisis (GFC), according
to OECD forecasts. But the
cumulative shortfall in GDP should
only be a fraction of that in the
wake of the GFC, our analysis
shows . The reason is the
overwhelming policy response to
cushion the pandemic’s impact. We
don’t see the shock morphing into
a financial crisis as long as these
policies stay in place. See page 6.
The longer it takes for activity to
normalize, the deeper the
economic scars will be. We are
tracking the interplay between
containment measures and
mobility changes and activity as
economies start to reopen.
Mobility is key to tracking the virus
shock. Metrics that gauge the
movement of people using mobile
phone location data can help
capture individual behaviors .
They are more closely tied to
economic activity than the severity
of lockdowns, our analysis shows.
See the Asymmetrical assessment
chart. This means the response of
people to the virus has more impact
than government policies alone. We
also find restricting mobility and
imposing lockdowns has a bigger
effect on the key services industry
than easing those measures.
The pace of the activity restart
depends on how successful
countries are in supressing the virus
as they reopen. Our mobility
research suggests the risk of
renewed virus outbreaks may be
highest in the U.S. among developed
nations. China is on the leading
edge of economic reopening. The
pandemic’s longer term investment
implications are about changing
societal preferences, sectoral
adjustments, digitalization and the
relocation of global supply chains.
Alternative data sources are key to
getting a handle on this.

We find that measures of mobility are
more closely tied to activity than the
severity of lockdown measures. This
suggests investors should focus on
mobility rather than government rules.
There has been a much
needed
policy revolution to cushion the
coronavirus shock. Policymakers
are relying less on financial sector
transmission to stimulate activity
and more on direct support to the
real economy. There is a blurring of
fiscal and monetary policies as well
as government intervention in the
economy and financial markets.
The global policy response to the
pandemic has been unprecedented
in speed and size. The combined
sum of fiscal and monetary actions
is covering the virus hit to the
economy in both the U.S. and euro
area. See the Filling the gap chart.
We now see a risk of policy fatigue
in the U.S. as policymakers face a
series of “fiscal cliffs” and may cut
fiscal relief prematurely one
reason for our U.S. equities
downgrade. By contrast, Europe
has ramped up stimulus efforts.
This partly underpins our upgrade
of European stocks to overweight.
We wrote last August about the
necessity for effective monetary
and fiscal coordination in a major
shock because it would help reduce
lost output and could lessen risks
such as rising inequality.
Without
proper guardrails and a
clear exit strategy, however, we
warned of a medium term risk of
uncontrolled deficits with
commensurate monetary expansion
and, ultimately, rising inflation.
Where are we now? Debt has
ballooned so far without a rise in
rates. If coordination made that
possible, it could be tempting to
continue even in normal times. But
there is no free lunch. Debt rollover
will become harder when rates rise. It
may eventually have to be dealt with
through austerity, default or
inflation. Inflation could be seen as
the most politically palatable
solution. And even a well designed
monetary policy strategy may not
prevent inflation over time due to
deglobalization and re regulation.
Our bottom line: The policy
revolution was essential. It is a near
term positive for risk assets but is
unlikely to be the prelude to the type
of policy driven, decade long bull
market that followed the GFC. A key
implication is reduced ballast of
nominal government bonds over a
strategic horizon. Rates are near
their effective lower bounds, and we
see inflation risks in coming years.

The policy revolution is essential to deal
with the shock and is good news for
markets in the short run. But that may
not be the case in the medium term.

Structural shifts are challenging
the resilience of portfolios. With the
policy revolution pushing yield
curves close to their lower bounds,
we see government bonds
providing less diversification
benefits in strategic allocations.
See page 10.
Many assets are vulnerable to
the physical and regulatory
implications of climate change
and other sustainability related
risks. The pandemic has sparked
concerns about fragile supply
chains and companies’ social
license to operate, accelerating a
trend toward sustainable investing.
See page 11.
China and the U.S. are intensifying
their strategic rivalry across
multiple dimensions, resulting in
an increasingly bipolar world. See
page 8. Investors need to balance
the investment case for gaining
exposure to both poles with
possible investment restrictions on
each side. Greater geopolitical
fragmentation means that portfolio
resilience will have to be driven by
deliberate diversification across
countries and regions.
Investors need to embrace
uncertainty in this environment.
Our methodology for constructing
portfolios explicitly takes into
account fundamental uncertainty
around long term mean returns. The
coronavirus shock only underscores
the importance of uncertainty for
building portfolio resilience.
Structural portfolio resilience is
much more than just relying on
broad asset class correlations in
public markets. It’s making sure the
portfolio is well positioned at the
regional, country and company level
to underlying themes.
Private markets, which are not
suitable for all investors, offer this
potential. Managers have a say in
structuring the investments and are
able to add custom made resilience.
Private markets can give exposures
to emerging technologies and other
real economy trends not available in
public markets, in our view. And they
are bigger and deeper than ever. See
the Going private chart.
Bottom line: The virus shock is
creating new norms and
accelerating structural trends. What
is needed now is real resilience.

Structural portfolio resilience is much
more than just relying on broad asset
class correlations in public markets.
It’s making sure the portfolio is well
positioned for underlying themes.

The pandemic has added fuel to
geopolitical dynamics already
underway. The post coronavirus
world is likely to be characterized
by four key themes: First, the world
is increasingly becoming bifurcated,
with the U.S. and China at opposite
poles. Intense rivalry looks set to
affect nearly every dimension of
the U.S. China relationship
regardless of the U.S. election
outcome. Other countries will
increasingly be pushed to choose
sides. Decoupling is focused on
but not limited to the technology
sector. This means investors need
exposure to both markets,
especially as the center of gravity
of global growth is moving to Asia,
as the Shifting center of gravity
chart shows.
Second, the pandemic is poised to
accelerate deglobalization as it
magnifies nationalist and
protectionist trends. The crisis adds
to existing pressures such as global
trade tensions and populism. This
threatens to disrupt the web of
global supply chains at the expense
of efficiency. It may lead to
onshoring the production of
strategic goods.
Third, government intervention in
economies is likely to become more
entrenched. Unprecedented policy
support comes with strings attached
including curbs on share buybacks
and dividend payouts and
companies increasingly will need a
social license to operate. Lastly, the
pandemic exacerbates inequalities
within and across countries. It has
hit hard emerging economies with
more limited institutional capacity.
Domestic polarization is on the rise
too, with the U.S. presidential
election set to take place against the
most tumultuous domestic
backdrop since 1968. The two
parties are as far apart on policy as
they have ever been, making the
result consequential for markets.

The world looks increasingly bifurcated,
with the U.S. and China at opposite
poles as their rivalry intensifies.
Investors should consider gaining
exposure to both spheres.
Many emerging markets entered
the crisis in stronger financial
shape than in the past and unlike
in previous crises let currencies
depreciate as a release valve.
Many have weak public health
systems, however, and the
pandemic has not yet peaked. See
the Stark divergence chart. Activity
remains frozen in many EMs, debt
levels are on the rise, and some
have limited ability to cushion the
virus shock. This challenges long
standing pillars of EM investing:
strong growth, strong balance
sheets and fiscal conservatism.
The shock’s size
and ability to
withstand it varies greatly across
EM countries, and the resulting
dispersion offers opportunity.
We divide EM economies into three
columns. First: those with relatively
strong balance sheets and the policy
space to weather the downturn.
Many northern Asian economies,
including China and South Korea, fit
this bill. Second is a group of
troubled economies with high
external imbalances and rising
indebtedness that face financial
distress. The third group includes
large EM economies such as Mexico,
India and Russia, which face large
economic shocks but likely have the
tools to weather them. Our Emerging
markets marker shows the diversity.
Bottom line: We downgrade broad
EM equities and debt to tactical
underweights, and see country and
security selection as key.

The pandemic has dealt a generational
shock to the emerging world. Yet the
impact varies greatly across economies.
This increases dispersion, and makes
country and security selection crucial.

The traditional approach to
building financial resilience in
multi asset portfolios has been to
rely on nominal government bonds
as a cushion against risk asset sell
offs. One consequence of the policy
revolution bond yields tethered
by central bank intervention
challenges this and forces
investors to seek out alternatives.
We expect negative returns across
developed market government
bonds on a five year horizon given
low and negative yields today. Also,
the inverse correlation between
bonds and stocks decreases as
yields near perceived lower bounds,
compromising bonds’ ballast role.
The underperformance of German
and Japanese bonds in recent
equity selloffs illustrates this.
Both these effects lead us to prefer
reduced allocations to government
bonds. We show this for an
illustrative multi asset portfolio in
the Fading case for nominal bonds
chart. If yield curve control were to
cap yields as well as provide a floor
for them, returns may be less
punitive. This would result in a
higher allocation (the third bar)
than with a floor alone (the fourth).
No one asset can directly replace the
ballast role of nominal government
bonds, but we believe inflation
linked bonds offer an increasingly
attractive alternative. Inflationary
pressures could build up once the
initial deflationary shock from the
sizeable demand shortfall
dissipates. Deglobalization, re
regulation and deficits are possible
catalysts. And central banks will
likely tolerate temporary overshoots
above inflation targets.
Bottom line: Investors need to re
evaluate nominal government bond
exposures in an environment of
increased deglobalization, lower for
longer yields and unprecedented
policy action. We favor alternatives
such as inflation linked securities.

The cost
benefit calculus of holding
nominal government bonds in strategic
allocations has changed. Their ballast
properties have weakened because of
lower for longer rates, and the risks are
greater due to rising inflation risks.

Globalization led to growing
cross border flows and integrated
consumer markets, with
differences between companies,
countries and regions dissipating.
Now, the world is becoming more
fragmented, with the U.S. and
China at opposite poles.
We see return dispersion growing
across regions as a result. This
creates more diversification
potential as in the rapidly
decoupling U.S. and Chinese tech
industries. Investors will likely need
strategic exposure to both markets,
as we see two main but separate
engines of global growth ahead.
State intervention in economies
and policy will vary greatly by
country. The pandemic is
exacerbating inequalities within
and across countries, and
magnifying protectionist trends.
All this questions the usefulness of
broad asset classes such as EM,
and makes “real resilience” critical,
through considered diversification
across countries and sectors. Most
portfolios have yet to embrace this
new normal, as investors are
traditionally focused on using
broad asset classes to diversify.
Mainstays of portfolio diversification
such as U.S. Treasuries may be
less effective in this role going
forward. By contrast, geopolitical
bifurcation and higher inflation
could raise the diversification
potential of assets such as Chinese
government bonds and inflation
protected securities over time. See
the Outdated diversification chart.
We also see a bigger role for private
markets, both for diversification and
exposure to real economy trends.
Bottom line: We believe asset class
diversification alone is not going to
work anymore. Granular analysis at
the country and sector level is
crucial to understanding exposure to
the structural limits that will be
tested in the post Covid 19 world.

Achieving real resilience goes beyond
broad asset class diversification.
It requires considered diversification
across country and sector exposures
that can thrive in the new normal.
The pandemic has supercharged a
shift toward sustainability. Assets
at environmental, social and
governance (ESG) mandated funds
in the U.S. exceeded last year’s
record levels at the end of May,
even as markets had sold off.
See the Sustainable assets chart.
Sustainable flows are in their early
stages, in our view, and the
sustainability wave will unfold over
years and decades. Importantly, a
return advantage may be gained
during the transition to a more
sustainable world, as we argued in
Sustainability: the tectonic shift
transforming investing. We also
believe markets still under
appreciate the potential economic
damage caused by climate change
as well as related opportunities,
such as the rise in renewable
energy. Extreme weather and other
climate events are not yet reflected
in valuations, as shown in Getting
physical of April 2019.
There have been setbacks in some
sustainability related trends the
crisis has led some governments to
pause efforts to curb plastics use,
for example.
We believe these setbacks are
temporary. We see the “S” (social) in
ESG capturing greater attention as
the pandemic spotlights issues such
as employee safety and satisfaction
and forces companies to reconsider
their social purpose. In fact, we see
sustainability rising beyond the
mere labels of environmental, social
and governance. What matters is the
resilience of companies to shocks,
and we see sustainability becoming
a core part of the investment
process as a result.
Our bottom line: The shift toward
sustainability is not just poised to
give sustainable assets a potential
return advantage for years to come,
but we also see it altering other
return drivers and creating entirely
new sources of returns.

A tectonic shift toward sustainability
is poised to give a return advantage to
sustainable assets for years to come
and affect all drivers of returns.

We quickly concluded Covid
19 would cause an
unprecedented near term economic contraction
but that an overwhelming policy response would help
mitigate the damage and make the cumulative GDP
shortfall much smaller than that of the GFC.
As a result, we advocated
taking advantage of historic
opportunities in sustainability in late February and
risk assets in strategic portfolios in late March. We
have since turned neutral on equities in our strategic
framework after the significant rally but keep our
overweight in credit. Higher spread levels make up
for increased default risk, in our view.
On a tactical basis, reflecting a shorter investment
horizon, we turned cautious on Feb. 28, taking both
equities and credit to neutral. We returned to a mild
pro risk stance on April 6, overweighting credit and
favoring up in quality assets with strong policy
backstops. This was reflected in a preference for U.S.
stocks, investment grade credit and the quality factor.
We have now downgraded U.S. equities to neutral
amid risks of fading fiscal stimulus and election
uncertainty, and have turned cautious on emerging
markets. We have upgraded European equities as we
see them offering the most attractive exposure to a
cyclical upswing. We are keeping our credit
overweight because of a global hunt for yield and
central bank purchases. See pages 14 and 15.
We
have turned neutral on equities on a
strategic horizon given the challenging
backdrop for earnings and dividend payouts. We
trim our modest overweight in EM and maintain
our DM exposure at neutral. Tactically, we are
also neutral on equities. We like the quality
factor for its resilience and favor Europe among
cyclical exposures.

We have moved to a strategic overweight on
credit after being underweight for the past year.
Sizeable spread widening compensates for the
risks of defaults and downgrades, in our view.
On a tactical horizon, extraordinary measures by
central banks including purchases of
corporate debt are supportive. Risks of a
temporary liquidity crunch remain, but coupon
income is crucial in a world starved for yield.

The strategic case for holding nominal
government bonds has materially diminished
with yields closer to perceived lower bounds. The
“even lower for even longer“ outlook for rates is
compromising the asset class' ability to act as
ballast against equity market selloffs in the long
run. On a tactical basis, we keep duration at
neutral as unprecedented policy
accommodation skews yields to the downside.

We are neutral on cash and are using it to
support our view on credit. Some cash makes
sense as a buffer against supply shocks that
drive both stocks and bonds lower.

Non
traditional return streams, including
private credit, have the potential to add value
and diversification. Many institutional investors
remain underinvested in private markets as they
overestimate liquidity risks, in our view. Private
assets reflect a diverse array of exposures but
valuations and greater inherent uncertainties of
some private assets keep us neutral overall.
We maintain a modest pro
risk
stance overall, given our macro
assessment of the virus shock and
the strong policy response. This is
balanced by a preference for up in
quality assets that have policy
backstops and are high up the
corporate capital structure.
We prefer credit over equities as a
result. This includes overweights
in investment grade credit (our
quality bias), high yield and euro
area peripheral debt. The common
thread: renewed asset purchases
by central banks, a stable interest
rate backdrop and attractive
income in a world where decently
yielding assets are hard to find.
We have downgraded EM equities
and USD denominated debt. Many
EM economies are still battling to
contain the virus outbreak and lack
policy space to cushion the blow.
We have upgraded European
equities to overweight. The region
offers more attractive cyclical
exposure than EMs due to its
public health measures and
ramped up policy response.
We are raising Japanese equities
to neutral for similar reasons.
We have downgraded U.S. stocks
to neutral after a strong run of
outperformance. Risks include policy
fatigue, a re emergence of the virus,
intensifying U.S. China tensions,
and a turbulent election season.
We also cut Asia ex Japan equities
to neutral as renewed U.S. China
tensions may hurt investor
sentiment as China balances its
growth and stability objectives.
From a factor perspective, we
increase our overweight in quality,
for what we see as its likely resilience
against a range of future outcomes.
The possibility of a cyclical uptick
has caused us to upgrade the value
factor to neutral and downgrade
minimum volatility to neutral. We
also remain neutral on momentum.

We keep our preference for credit, based
on renewed asset purchases by central
banks, a stable interest rate backdrop
and attractive income in a world where
decently yielding assets are hard to find.
United States
We downgrade U.S. equities to neutral. Risks of fading fiscal stimulus and an extended epidemic are
threatening to derail the market’s strong run. Renewed U.S. China tensions and a divisive election also weigh.
Europe
We upgrade European equities to overweight. The region is exposed to a cyclical upside as the economy
restarts, against a backdrop of solid public health measures and a galvanizing policy response.
Japan
We upgrade Japanese equities to neutral. We see strong fiscal policy and public health measures allowing for
rapid normalization.
Emerging markets
We downgrade emerging market equities to underweight. We are concerned about the pandemic’s spread and
see less room or willingness for policy measures to cushion the impact in many but not all countries.
Asia ex
Japan
We downgrade Asia ex
Japan equities to neutral. Renewed U.S. China tension is a risk. China’s goal to balance
growth with financial stability has led to relatively muted policy measures to cushion the virus fallout.
Momentum
We keep momentum at neutral. The factor is now dominated by tech stocks on the one hand and defensives on
the other, giving investors exposure to growth companies and some potential ballast.
Value
We upgrade value to neutral. We see the ongoing restart of economies likely benefiting cyclical assets and
potentially helping value stage a rebound after a long stretch of underperformance.
Minimum volatility
We downgrade min vol to neutral. The restart of economies is likely to benefit cyclical assets and reduce the
need for defensive exposures.
Quality
We increase our overweight in quality. We see it as the most resilient exposure against a range of outcomes in
terms of developments in the pandemic and economy.
Fixed
income
U.S. Treasuries
We like U.S. Treasuries. Long
term yields are likely to fall further than other developed market peers, even as
low rates reduce their ability to cushion against risk asset selloffs.
Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities
We are neutral on TIPS. A huge decline in rates makes the entry point less attractive. We still see potential for
higher inflation over time and like TIPS in strategic allocations.
German bunds
We remain underweight bunds as current yield levels provide little cushion against major risk events. Also,
potential issuance related to the proposed EU recovery fund could compete with bunds for investment.
Euro area peripherals
We overweight euro area peripheral government bonds despite recent outperformance. We see further rate
compression due to stepped up quantitative easing by the European Central Bank and other policy actions.
Global investment grade
We overweight global investment grade credit even as valuations have risen. Asset purchases by central banks
and a broadly stable rates backdrop support the sector.
Global high yield
We stay overweight high yield as a source of income despite recent underperformance. We avoid energy as
lower oil prices challenge the ability of issuers to refinance near term maturities.
Emerging market
hard currency
We have downgraded hard
currency EM debt due to the pandemic’s spread, heavy exposure to energy
exporters and limited policy space in some emerging economies. Default risks may be underpriced.
Emerging market
local currency
We remain neutral on local
currency EM debt for its attractive coupon income. Currencies have adjusted and
valuations have cheapened. A risk of further currency declines remains amid monetary and fiscal easing.
Asia fixed income
We have turned neutral on Asia fixed income. The pandemic’s containment in many countries and low energy
exposure are positives. Renewed U.S. China tensions and China’s relatively muted policy fallout are risks.



