Emerging markets equities
have enjoyed a V-shaped
recovery in the second
quarter, with even some
stocks that we would
consider speculative
starting to tick higher.

In addition to the evolution
of COVID-19 around the
world, we will be watching
the re-emergence of
US-China tensions closely
in the third quarter.

Emerging markets debt
also staged a remarkable
recovery in the second
quarter, but based on the
lag behind US high yield
corporates and global
credit markets, we believe
the rally may have room
to run.

Within emerging markets
debt, we currently see the
best return opportunities
in high yield external
sovereign credit.

The COVID-19 chapter of the 2020 book certainly isn’t finished yet, but the fall and
recovery in emerging markets equities so far this year has been a very sharp “V.” After
falling 34% from peak to trough in the first quarter, emerging markets equities rose 18%
in the second quarter and 32% since a 23 March low (Exhibit 1).

Several factors contributed to the dramatic recovery. China and Japan began reopening
their economies without a major second wave of infections, while Korea never went into
full lockdown mode to begin with. (It should be noted, however, that both China and
Korea have seen an uptick in cases recently.) There has been some progress in clinical
trials for COVID-19 vaccines and potential treatments. Finally, the world economy
benefited from unprecedented fiscal and monetary stimulus, with the potential for further
easing if necessary in a number of places. In the coming months, we will be watching the
overall evolution of the disease, from the search for treatments to new outbreaks, particularly
in China. We will also pay close attention to if and how the epicenter of the disease
shifts, as it did over the past quarter.
We are also tracking the resurgence in political tension between China and the US, as
well as territories under Chinese rule. Trade has once again come to the fore in US-Sino
relations, with potential consequences for all emerging markets. China also continues to
tighten its grip on Hong Kong, with potential implications not only for the global financial
center and those that do business there, but for Taiwan.
Finally, as we enter the third quarter, we have identified several catalysts that would point
to an uptick in global growth, which would in turn indicate the potential for further
re-rating in emerging markets equities.

The epicenter of the pandemic shifted in the second quarter from
North Asia to India, Latin America, and the United States. Brazil has
been hit particularly hard, having recently surpassed 1.4 million cases
of the virus and 60,000 deaths. It is expected in July to claim from the
US the dubious honor of being the country with the deadliest coronavirus
outbreak. Brazil and India are testing far less than is the United
States, indicating that the true case count is higher.
The near-shutdown of the global economy would have hit Brazil hard
no matter what, given that a large proportion of the economy still
depends on exports of commodities, which are highly sensitive to global
growth. But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, whose attitude toward
the disease can best be described as dismissive, has also made some
unforced errors. For one thing, the governors of each individual state
were left to determine the response to the virus themselves, making for
a patchwork of preventive measures such as closing non-essential businesses
and encouraging citizens to practice social distancing.
The country is also yet again grappling with political turmoil, a
state of affairs that has become wearyingly familiar to many international
investors. Two health ministers have resigned in protest over
the federal response to the crisis. Meanwhile, Bolsonaro is under
investigation for allegedly interfering with the work of the federal
police as they investigated members of his family. In June, a former
aide to Bolsonaro’s son, Flavio, was arrested. We once thought that
President Bolsonaro’s market-friendly reforms would mark a crucial
turning point for the country, but that future appears to be further
away than we believed.
Meanwhile, stocks have behaved oddly during the pandemic. The
emerging markets sell-off hurt not only vulnerable companies—those
that lacked solid business plans or robust, steady cash flows—but also
solid, well-run businesses. Through the 23 March bottom, all sectors
and countries were negatively impacted by the pandemic, but the more
economically sensitive sectors, such as financials, industrials, energy,
and materials sold off the most. Additionally, those markets with a
large weighting in these sectors, such as Brazil, Colombia, Indonesia,
and South Africa, declined the most. Meanwhile, securities within the
communication services, consumer discretionary, and information
technology sectors, notably within China, held up the best. Since the
bottom, the recovery has been more mixed, with some of the hardest-hit
sectors like energy and materials registering significant gains, but with
financials lagging the most – perhaps a reflection of lingering growth
concerns (Exhibit 2). Lately, stocks we would consider speculative—
highly leveraged companies, or those facing coronavirus-specific risks,
such as airlines—have started to tick sharply higher. We believe the
market, optimistic about the future path of COVID-19, may finally be
optimistic enough about the course of the global economy to buy stocks
that they believe have been oversold. It’s worth pointing out that the
gap in valuations between value and growth stocks in emerging markets
is wider than at any point in history.

Should the global economy continue to open without a resurgence
severe enough to send a large part of the globe into quarantine again,
we believe investors will also recognize the unique opportunity available
in relatively high quality emerging markets stocks that are still
available at a discount. We would then expect these stocks to re-rate.
Given how exposed emerging markets are to exports and global trade,
however, we emphasize the importance of a recovery in employment
and consumer demand in developed countries as well as at home.
US–China Tension Heats Up…Again
2019 was the year of the trade war, culminating with China and the US
inking a Phase 1 trade deal that sent markets soaring. But the euphoria
has been short-lived. The trade agreement required China to spend
$200 billion more over the next two years on imports of US products,
including agricultural crops such as soybeans, energy products such as
crude oil and liquefied natural gas, and manufactured goods. China
has fallen short on buying both US oil and soybeans this year, even as
oil imports reached a record high in May and demand for soybeans has
been strong. Chinese farmers are restocking their herds after a swine flu
forced the slaughter of millions of animals, creating demand for animal
feed.1 Through 11 June 2020, China has purchased 15.6 million metric
tons of US soybeans (Exhibit 3). While this is larger than the 13.6 million
figure one year ago, it is less than half of the 36 million metric tons
purchased at the same point in 2017—before the Phase 1 deal.

The US has continued to pressure China on sensitive topics, and
China has continued to take a dim view of it. The most salient
recent example is in Hong Kong. China introduced a draft of a
national security law that would allow mainland officials to supersede
the territory’s independent judicial system under vaguely
defined circumstances in which authorities determine there is a
threat to national security. The law would also establish a Chinese
office in Hong Kong to gather intelligence and supervise local
law enforcement in matters of national security. As a result, US
President Donald Trump has said he will end the territory’s special
relationship with the US, which includes preferential treatment on
trade and customs. After the statement, China reportedly told its
state-owned entities to stop buying US soybeans.

The rekindling of the trade dispute has major ramifications for both
China and the US. While trade is less important to China than it was at
the turn of the century, it still accounts for nearly 20% of the country’s
GDP. Further tensions, tariffs, and restrictions could be a blow to the
Chinese economy. The pertinent questions for investors heading into
the third quarter are: Is Phase 1 dead? White House trade adviser Peter
Navarro said the deal was “over” on 22 June, a claim that President
Trump quickly denied. If it’s not dead, is there any hope for a Phase 2?
The approach of the US election will doubtless complicate calculations
on both sides. The Chinese may have more leverage if President Trump
keenly desires a deal in time for re-election, or they may simply decide
to wait to find out if they might get a better deal under a potential
President Joseph Biden. For our part, we believe Biden would be tough
on China, but perhaps more amenable to negotiations.
Separately, the US Senate passed a bill in May that would tighten
audit requirements for foreign companies that trade on US
exchanges, requiring them to submit their audits to the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board and certify that they are not controlled by a foreign
government. Several companies, including Alibaba last year and
NetEase and JD.com in the past month, have already completed
secondary listings in Hong Kong in anticipation of delisting. Yum
China, an operator of fast casual restaurants such as KFC and Pizza
Hut, is also considering a $2 billion secondary listing. We expect
many more secondary listings and observe that far from being a
crisis decision, many companies are seizing an opportunity to raise
money at a fairly high valuation and doing productive things with
the money. JD.com, which issued 133 million new shares ($3.9
billion), plans to invest the proceeds in technology initiatives in
its supply chain to enhance the customer experience and improve
operating efficiency. We believe the companies that can do so are
likely to seek a dual listing outside the US, including in Shenzhen or
Hong Kong, and that companies that cannot do that will delist in
the US and seek a primary listing somewhere else, perhaps London
or Hong Kong.
However, the recent developments do call the future of Hong Kong
as a global financial center into serious question, in our view. With
China asserting more power over Hong Kong’s affairs, we believe it
will become a less attractive place for international companies to do
business. We would not be surprised to see the locus of power, and
therefore, expatriate jobs, shift to nearby Shenzhen or Singapore. The
deterioration of the so-called “one country, two systems” paradigm
also raises the question of whether China will also begin trying to
assert more control over Taiwan.
Chinese Tech Stocks
One of the major areas up for dispute between the US and China
is technology. The US charged Huawei’s chief financial officer with
fraud last year and has blocked the world’s largest telecom company
not only from buying US parts, but from buying chips from manufacturers
that use US technology—a ban that effectively covers the
entire industry. However, we would note that the policies that are
announced are not always the policies that go into effect. For example,
US officials softened an earlier pronouncement so that US companies
can work with Huawei on 5G standard-setting, as Huawei was an
early leader in the technology and is heavily involved in its rollout
around the world. In addition, companies may be able to obtain a
license from the US Department of Commerce to supply Huawei
with chips in the future.
To build goodwill, a company we currently own across all emerging
markets strategies where we are not barred from doing so by
market capitalization limits, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Company (TSMC), went so far as to announce that it would build
a major manufacturing facility in the US. The ban on supplying
Huawei, one of TSMC’s major customers, came after that announcement,
raising the question of how much goodwill a company linked
in any way to China can actually build, even with grand gestures. Still,
TSMC is a good example of the nuances involved in developments
like the Huawei ban. Currently, TSMC is working through the backlog
of Huawei orders, and when that’s done, it will certainly need to
fill a void. However, the company also has plenty of customers eager
to use its best-in-class technology that it did not have capacity to
supply before. We also believe that TSMC will apply for a waiver to
supply Huawei. In any event, we think companies like TSMC have
world-class capabilities that serve as moats protecting them to a certain
degree from being outcompeted into obscurity.
Another major question from the Huawei ban is whether the
demand for 5G capabilities can shift to other companies or if it
may simply disappear. For example, European companies looking
to upgrade to 5G could potentially buy technology from Samsung.
However, a significant portion of their current infrastructure is from
Huawei, and ripping it out and starting over is a much higher-cost
endeavor. Some companies might well decide that sticking with 4G
is a better bet at the moment. It all remains to be seen, but these are
important risks and opportunities for investors in Asian technology
companies to consider.
Zooming out a bit to look at the big picture, it’s clear that technology
stocks have proven to be relatively pandemic-proof in many economies—
an understandable development at a time when in-person
gatherings are limited and virtual work, shopping, entertainment,
and food delivery have become a bigger part of everyday life in many
developed markets and the wealthier emerging markets. Emerging
markets have plentiful opportunities for technology investment. In
fact, the MSCI EM Index is second only to the MSCI US Index in
terms of exposure to information technology and Internet-related
stocks, 35% to the US’ 38% (Exhibit 4). It offers twice the tech exposure
of Japanese equities, thrice that of European stocks, and 10 times
that of British equities.
Heading into the third quarter, we think Chinese technology companies
still offer some rich opportunities. In addition to certain
semiconductor manufacturers, we see attractive investments in
Internet services companies, particularly those that benefit from the
blurring lines between online and offline services and those that have
revenue sources other than advertising, including subscriptions and
licensing agreements. These companies in particular have benefited
from demand scenarios that arose in the pandemic but may continue
into the future, including food delivery, online education, digital wallets,
and online payment systems.
The fate of emerging markets stocks in the third quarter and
beyond will depend on global growth. For us as stock pickers, that
means that the macro environment in the developed world and on
international issues such as trade is likely to be just as important as
domestic developments.
We’ll be watching for four catalysts that might indicate that global
growth is poised for a comeback. They are:
1. Lower infection rates in economies that are opening or have
opened;
2. Unemployment rates stabilizing and falling in developed and
emerging markets alike;
3. Improving PMIs and demand for everyday products, an indicator
of the financial health of the consumer; and
4. A treatment or vaccine for COVID-19.
There is no doubt that the first half of 2020 was a challenging time
for emerging markets equity investors, and we enter the third quarter
in an environment even more uncertain than usual. What we can say,
however, is that COVID-19 exacerbated existing price dislocations
not only in emerging markets compared to other regions, but in
high-quality businesses trading at lower valuations. The course of the
pandemic and related government actions will have a great deal of
influence in how we end the year, as will trade developments and the
US election. But secular trends, including the rise of the increasingly
advanced technology sector in Asia, are likely to remain compelling in
the next quarter and beyond.
After suffering historically large losses in both March and the first
quarter of 2020, the second quarter marked a reversal of fortunes for
emerging markets debt investors. The blended asset class registered
one of its best quarters on record with a return of 11.05% and has
recouped around 75% of its first quarter drawdown in just three
months. As remarkable as this rebound has been, it has lagged that
of US and global credit markets, which have recouped anywhere
from 80%–90% of their losses (Exhibit 5). To us, this indicates that
emerging markets debt may have greater scope for outperformance
going forward.
The emerging markets debt rebound began in late March, fueled by
the rapid, substantial monetary and fiscal stimulus announced by
the world’s major economies. The most significant of these was the
US Federal Reserve’s announcement of its bond-buying program,
which sent a strong signal to financial markets that the Fed was both
willing and able to absorb not only all new issuance of US investment
grade bonds, but also nearly the entire outstanding market. The mere
announcement of the program sent shock waves well beyond the US
investment grade credit market, helping to stabilize liquidity conditions
and reopen primary markets across fixed income markets.
More recently, the strong rally in emerging markets debt has reflected
broader risk-on investor sentiment, easing financial conditions around
the globe, and indications that global economic activity has already
troughed. One thing that became clear to investors early on in the
quarter is that the economic fallout from the pandemic is highly
unlikely to reach the depression-like severity that some market participants
had initially feared. Every day, more countries are beginning the
gradual process of reopening their economies. Importantly, there is
little evidence from China and Europe that easing lockdown measures
will lead to a significant second wave of infections that would require
the sort of broad-based shutdown measures that could jeopardize a
gradual global economic recovery. Meanwhile, policy support remains
in place. Central banks have provided extensive and comprehensive
stimulus and stand ready to act, if needed, while the world’s largest
economies are also stepping up their fiscal response to the pandemic.
Within emerging markets debt, the safest part of the asset class–investment
grade external debt—led the initial recovery, as is often the case
following large shocks. This segment of the asset class is now back
in positive territory on a year-to-date basis (Exhibit 6), owing to its
longer duration profile, which boosted returns amid the flight-toquality
rally in Treasury yields. As the rebound gathered momentum
in May and investors began to hope that the economic recovery would
be swifter than they first imagined, emerging markets debt progressed
into the next phase of its recovery. In this phase, the segments of the
asset class that are most sensitive to growth–high yield external debt
and local currency debt—have outperformed.
We began increasing risk across portfolios in late March, as spreads
breached their widest levels since the global financial crisis. As the
second quarter began, we were running around 70%–80% of our risk
budget. Initially, our focus was on investment grade exposure, with an
emphasis on countries with strong balance sheets and access to financing
needed to weather a potentially prolonged economic slump. Given
the strong outperformance of investment grade credit, we now see less
room for additional spread tightening as valuations have approached
our targets. In May, we began rotating down in quality by adding
high yield exposure and increased risk exposure to the maximum level
permitted by our internal risk budgets.
Our more favorable view is predicated on several factors. First, lockdown
restrictions have been relaxed and economic data are poised
to improve from the troughs reached in April. China, which we
view as a possible leading indicator of what Western countries may
experience, is coming back somewhat better than expected, driven
by both domestic demand and better-than-expected exports. While
there has been an increase in new infection rates in certain regions
of the world, we know the playbook for flattening the curve and
we currently do not expect major economies to revert to the large
scale and broad-based shutdowns previously experienced. Second,
access to capital has improved significantly for the vast majority of
countries. When the primary markets reopened in late March, only
the top investment grade countries were able to issue new debt.
However, many high yield countries now have access to financing,
either through the capital markets or the International Monetary
Fund (IMF), alleviating near-term liquidity pressures. Bahrain
and Egypt, for example, issued a combined $7 billion in new debt.
Meanwhile, the IMF has made emergency lending facilities available
with few restrictions, helping many countries solve short-term
financing needs. Lastly, oil prices have bottomed. Lower supply and
better-than-expected demand helped the price of Brent crude more
than double from its late April trough.
From a valuation standpoint, high yield dollar-denominated debt
remains attractive compared to both other emerging markets debt
segments and developed markets credit. The spread differential
between high yield and investment grade external emerging markets
debt remains historically high at over 600 basis points (bps), compared
to a long-term average of around 300 bps (Exhibit 7). While
this spread differential is unlikely to converge to its longer-term
historical average anytime soon, we see ample scope for high yield
spreads to tighten further, whereas any additional tightening in
investment grade is likely to be far more limited. High yield emerging
markets sovereign debt is also attractive relative to US high yield
corporates. Since the end of the global financial crisis, spreads on
emerging markets debt have traded around 40 bps wide of US high
yield (Exhibit 8) on average, but that average belies a very broad
range—from some 250 bps tight in 2010 to as much as 340 bps
wide during the COVID-19 crisis. Emerging markets debt spreads
have outperformed recently, but the spread pick-up remains near
historical highs at just over 200 bps currently. Moreover, while we
expect to see an increase in emerging markets defaults in 2020, our
default rate forecast is relatively muted, and most of these defaults
have either already occurred or are priced into the market. In contrast,
defaults in US high yield are expected to reach the high single
digits this year due to significant exposure to troubled industries
such as shale oil production, retail, and travel and hospitality.
While we have turned more positive on high yield, we have not yet
turned structurally positive on local currency debt. We have favored
duration in local markets, which has performed extremely well; however,
the long duration theme is less attractive at current yields, which
are hovering near all-time lows. On the other hand, real yields are
roughly in line with historical averages given the low level of inflation.
Inflation does not appear to be a near-term threat despite ultra-accommodative
monetary policies and currency depreciation across the
developing world. Conventional easing by emerging markets central
banks seems largely exhausted and mostly priced in, though unconventional
policy measures could still lend further support in some
countries. We still see attractive duration opportunities, mainly in
high yielders such as Indonesia, Russia, South Africa, and Mexico, but
we are more selective today.
In the final phase of the recovery, we believe local market currencies
will outperform. There is little doubt that emerging markets currencies
are cheap, as they absorbed much of the shock from the crisis (Exhibit
9). However, depressed valuations alone will not drive sustainable
outperformance. In order for currencies to revert to more normal
valuation levels, we would need to see a shift to structural weakness in
the US dollar, evidence of emerging markets growth outperforming
developed markets growth, or both. Now that the economic fallout
from the pandemic looks as though it will be much less severe than
many had initially expected, the case for continued dollar strength
is much less convincing. The dollar has already weakened around
5% from its peak during the flight-to-safety rally earlier this year,
but remains significantly overvalued relative to the currencies of US
trading partners. A number of factors could help drive structural
weakness in the dollar, including lower-for-longer Treasury yields
and a ballooning fiscal deficit. We expect these risks to increase in the
coming months, as we believe the Fed is likely to announce measures
to cap a rise in bond yields (i.e., yield curve control) later in the year.
As markets begin to focus more on the US election in November, the
dollar could weaken further if Democrats look likely to win both the
presidency and majorities in the House of Representatives and Senate.
While we believe it is too soon to call for a secular shift in the greenback,
we believe dollar weakness is a theme that is likely to play out in
phase three of the recovery.

While our view on emerging markets debt is constructive, we would
be remiss to ignore the risks given the high level of uncertainty
around the health crisis, economic data, and geopolitical outlook.
The main risk, in our view, is the potential for a second wave of
infections that precipitates another global economic shutdown.
Although we have yet to see any large-scale reversal in the reopening
process, a fog of uncertainty continues to linger over markets, as a
potential resurgence of infection rates poses a risk to the recovery.
Additionally, as the US presidential election approaches, markets are
likely to increasingly focus on what either a second term for President
Donald Trump or a win for former Vice President Joseph Biden
could mean for emerging markets.
We continue to believe the recovery in emerging markets debt will
vary. In general, emerging markets countries entered the crisis from
a position of relative strength. Many countries proved they have the
strong institutional frameworks, ample reserves, and policy flexibility
to respond to the pandemic. However, not all countries will
emerge from the crisis on equal footing, and some will undoubtedly
face greater challenges. Many emerging markets countries have limited
fiscal and monetary policy space to further respond to the crisis,
and although it has not been a focal point of the markets, many also
lag the developed world in controlling the virus. We are avoiding
deteriorating credits with poor fundamentals, weak institutions, and
a lack of policy credibility, as well as smaller countries with weak
balance sheets and less diversified economies that tend to be highly
dependent on commodities.
