
Our disciplined, Resilience and Optionality portfolio construction process posted year-to-date
returns of 16.86% for the NZS Global Growth strategy and 16.08% for the NZS Global Select
concentrated strategy, 23.11% and 22.33% , respectively, ahead of the -6.69% decline of the
Morningstar Global Markets GR index . For the second quarter of 2020, the 1 NZS Global Growth
strategy was up 39.95% and the NZS Global Select concentrated strategy was up 41.94%
compared to the Morningstar Global Markets GR index at 19.79% . The NZS Global Technology
strategy, which launched on March 16th, 2020, is up 52.46% since inception compared to the
Morningstar Global Technology GR up 45.27%; in Q2 2020, the NZS Global Technology
strategy was up 40.16% vs. the index at 30.50% .

The research process at NZS Capital is guided by the unpredictability of the world around us.
We believe companies that maximize non-zero-sum outcomes for all of their constituents,
including employees, customers, suppliers, society, and the environment, will also maximize
long-term outcomes for investors. Our view of the world informs our portfolio construction
process, which combines a relatively small number of Resilient companies with a long tail of
Optionality companies. Resilient businesses have very few predictions and a narrow range of
outcomes, while Optionality businesses have a wider range of outcomes and their success
hinges upon a more specific view of the future playing out. This combination of long-duration
growth with asymmetric upside is well suited to navigating the increasing pace of change
throughout the global economy.
The following year-to-date performance discussion references the NZS Global Growth strategy,
which represents our broadest approach in terms of number of names and sectors.

The market experienced a significant decline in Q1 2020; however, technology led a rebound in
Q2 2020. Our technology sector weight for the first half of 2020 was 62.44% of the strategy,
which was up 18.54%. We outperformed the technology component of the index by 4.56
percentage points . At NZS Capital, we believe volatility is not risk; rather, it represents
opportunity. As such, we took advantage of the market conditions in Q1 to shift a portion of the
portfolio from Resilience to Optionality. Both components of the portfolio contributed to
performance in the period; notably, in the Resilient portion, Nvidia, Amazon, Microsoft, and
Zendesk outperformed as the pandemic raised interest in accelerated cloud migration for
enterprise IT departments. Optionality was also well represented in top performers by Tesla,
Shopify, Peloton, Redfin, and Adyen. From a sector perspective, the portfolio outperformed in
technology (as previously mentioned), consumer discretionary, and real estate (REITs), and
benefited from not owning stocks in the financial and energy sectors.
Among the detractors were media companies Viacom and Disney, which underperformed due
to their advertising exposure, and, in the case of Disney, theme park shutdowns. We view these
pressures as short term in nature and continue to own these investments. Several
semiconductor companies weighed on performance due to slower economic demand including
Amphenol, Soitec SA, and On Semiconductor. Semiconductors and related industries remain
the largest portion of the portfolio given our long-term optimism for the sector. Constellium, a
provider of rolled and extruded aluminum products for the automotive, aerospace, and beverage
can market, detracted from performance as well. We added to the position based on the
long-term outlook for the business. HEICO was negatively impacted by travel demand, and we
exited the position given the risk of longer-term travel disruptions.
We brought on three new employees to NZS Capital in the first half of 2020. Jon Bathgate and
Joe Furmanski joined co-founders Brinton Johns and Brad Slingerlend on the investment team.
Jon and Joe spent 12 and 14 years, respectively, at Janus Henderson Investors in Denver,
working with Brinton and Brad for much of that period. Adam Schor, former Director of Global
Equity Strategies at Janus Henderson Investors, joined as President and Chief Risk Officer. Jim
Goff, former Director of Research at Janus, became a Senior Advisor to NZS Capital. We were
pleased that a large endowment and a noted sovereign wealth fund selected us to manage a
portion of their portfolios in the first half of 2020. We will succeed as a firm only if we meet and
exceed the objectives of these and future clients.
Market Commentary
The following is adapted in part from our weekly newsletters :
Well, that was an interesting 181 days. The COVID-19 pandemic and protests following George
Floyd’s murder placed an even bigger spotlight on inequality. Capitalism worked for centuries to
lift more people up from poverty than any other system over the same period. But, in its later
days, the experiment has left far too many behind – vulnerable, and unjustly harmed. The last
six months highlighted the hypocrisy of the tech platforms that have dominated our lives for the last two decades, as well as the ineptitude of our governments. And yet, in the West, freedom of
expression and speech rose up to shine an even brighter light – hope for the future and a path
forward. As we often say, cynicism sounds smart, but it’s never right in the long run. Optimism
always wins over time, and at NZS Capital we are optimistic about the future for companies that
create more value for society than for themselves. We strive to build our portfolios out of
companies working toward a more positive future, and we see no shortage of opportunities
today.
There is much speculation in the markets that the markets have too much speculation.
However, the current positive impacts from fiscal and monetary stimulus, combined with the
negative impact of the short- and long-term effects of COVID-19, make it hard to know if the
market is underpricing or overpricing risk. Before the global meltdown, “risk-free” long-term US
government bond rates had around 2%-3% yields, corporate bond yields were a bit higher, and
the market multiple was ~20x forward earnings. Absent the drop in interest rates and the fiscal
stimulus, which has so far guaranteed almost all assets are “risk free” (as the central banks
continue to purchase nearly anything to provide liquidity and stabilization), the shallow
correction in equities seems to underprice the risk of multiple years of rolling shut downs and
the fat-tail fallout from the pandemic. However, the penalty of holding cash at zero (or in some
countries negative) rates is strong motivation to bid up riskier assets with higher return potential.
Therefore, with zero rates and fiscal stimulus, the market might be unexpectedly overpricing the
risk of the pandemic, (particularly given the reasons for low rates discussed in more detail
below), which brings us to valuations.
The starting point when you buy or own a stock matters. A high starting point forces you to try to
peer further into the future, requiring very narrow predictions about how the far future will unfold
in order to be correct in the present. Conversely, a low starting point allows for broader
predictions, and does not require that crystal ball to be nearly as accurate. We know from
complex systems that attempting to precisely and accurately predict the future is of little use.
Therefore, there are two responses to a high starting point: 1) the more narrow your
prediction(s), the smaller the position size should be (and vice versa); and 2) keep an eye on
the totality of those small position sizes, such that you aren't making a portfolio level narrow
prediction about valuations. It’s fairly easy when you simplify it: match the breadth of prediction
to position size and monitor the total exposure of narrow predictions across the portfolio. None
of this argues for selling a position entirely if the outcome asymmetry is still high; instead, it
argues for thoughtful position sizing and portfolio construction – a good idea no matter what the
starting point is.
Which Came First, Low Rates or Increased Debt?
Back in May, Warren Buffett sat by himself in an empty, 19,000-seat arena and wondered
aloud: if rates can stay low forever, then why didn't civilization figure that out 2000 years ago?
Over the last 20 years, there has been a persistent fear that ever-rising credit cycles will create
ever-bigger crashes, as we saw in 2009. One might expect a major shock to the global
economy to pop a credit bubble created by artificially low rates; this spring we got the biggest shock of them all, yet it appears the economy could eventually exit the pandemic reasonably
intact. However, the unevenness of the recovery – with inequality rising even more as a result of
the pandemic – remains to be addressed (a point we’ll return to shortly).
Do low rates and seemingly infinite government monetary and fiscal stimulus perversely mean
that shocks make the economy stronger? But, what about inflation!? Surely the flood of money
will drive up prices and cause rates to jump higher, thus popping the giant credit bubble. But this
hasn’t been the case, despite being decades into the steadily declining rate trend and monetary
stimulus. Related to this, NZS Capital’s President and resident finance Lecturer, Adam Schor,
points to the collapse 49 years ago of Bretton Woods, the post-WWII global agreement to tie
currencies to gold. Following the extreme inflation of the 1970s, rates began a steady, 40-year,
downward march – which the termination of Bretton Woods likely facilitated. No longer tied to
gold, central banks can increase monetary supply and interest rates with much more flexibility.
Did low rates increase debt, or did debt demand low rates? As an economy grows and debt
increases, the borrowers – those people who need to make the interest payments and
eventually return the principle – tend to be disproportionately less-wealthy, while the people who
lend money out and make a return on it tend to be wealthier. As time goes on, the wealth of the
wealthier is more and more tied to the interest payments from the less wealthy – one person’s
indebtedness is another person’s asset. And, as inequality marches higher, the less wealthy
have an ever-rising debt burden that can only be maintained by perpetually lowering interest
rates. It’s in the best interest of the lenders to lend at lower and lower rates to preserve their
assets. This explanation is somewhat at odds with the general narrative – that lower rates are
the driving force behind rising debt. Certainly lower rates allow rising debt; however, the
common view misses the crucial point that increasing debt necessitates lower rates – which
actually has mathematical support2.
As well as allowing rising financial inequality to go unaddressed and unchecked, decreasing
rates have been one of the hidden deflationary forces in the economy, along with the shift from
an asset-heavy Industrial Age to a data-heavy Information Age. Indeed, with a large number of
people with rising indebtedness and stagnant incomes operating in an economy with
technology-driven deflation, it’s hard to imagine what could create sustainable inflation.
Now, if this trend of falling rates and rising debt persists into perpetuity, the result would be
infinitely negative rates and, in the end, one person would have 100% of the wealth while
everyone else would be indebted to them. Thus, we find ourselves back in that empty, dark
arena in Omaha, kindred spirits with Buffett in our puzzlement. Perhaps there is a solution to
this quandary – one that almost seems demanded by the current, pandemic-exacerbated
inequality in the world – redistribution. Economist and SFI External Professor Brian Arthur calls
our economy today the “distributive era”. To paraphrase: we have created a lot of wealth in the global economy; now, it’s time to focus on increasing who has access to it. Distributing money
to more people who are on less-certain financial footing is going to stabilize, or possibly reverse,
the deflationary trend. However, it’s important to avoid excessive inflation and rising rates that
would further burden the borrowers who are helped by redistribution.
It seems like a hard needle to thread, but it is not impossible. Why? The deflationary pressure
from the technology sector is going to step up dramatically as we move into the “AI Age” over
the next century, and every part of the economy becomes tech enabled, starting from less than
10% digital today. So, we probably have a wide berth to drive a little inflationary pressure and
maintain low rates.
That’s a neat and tidy story, right? It’s one possible explanation, and, moreover, it suggests that
redistribution could be a way out of our current socio-economic quandary. But, we live in a world
dominated by complex adaptive systems, which means that predicting the future isn’t so neat
and tidy. Or, as Jim Goff said in one of our recent team meetings, “Just when you think you
have something figured out, that’s when the market kicks you in the teeth”. The theory relies on
smart redistribution by governments, and, if we’ve learned anything from the last few years, then
we probably shouldn’t bank on smart decisions by governments around the world. And, the
economy remains extremely vulnerable to inflationary shocks, although they remain elusive for
the time being.
While this mid-year update has focused on macroeconomic issues, we actually spend
comparatively little time thinking about macro events from an investment perspective. As a
whole, however, the recent turbulence serves to highlight the frequency of fat-tail events
inherent to complex systems – and reinforces our philosophy of finding adaptable companies
that are creating the new digital operating system for the economy. The pandemic of 2020 has
accelerated the decades-long shift from the Industrial Age to the Information Age. Companies
that are long-term focused, innovative, and maximizing non-zero-sum outcomes will
disproportionately benefit. Our process is built to find these companies and craft a portfolio that
balances Resilience and Optionality for our clients. Thank you for your continued trust, interest,
and support.
